docs/how_to_guide/Manual parametrization.rst, before:

.. _parametrization-section:

Manual parametrization
======================

Supported DXF Entities
----------------------
QSketchMetric explicit supports the following DXF entities:
``LINE``, ``CIRCLE``, ``ARC``, ``POINT``, ``INSERT`` entities. Other entities such as
``LWPOLYLINE``, ``POLYLINE``, ``SPLINE``, ``ELLIPSE``, ``MTEXT``, ``TEXT`` **etc.**  can
be also parametrized, using the ``INSERT`` entity.


What is needed?
-------------------
* `QCAD Professional <https://qcad.org/en/download>`_ is a commercial software, but it offers a free trial version. It
  is needed to embed the parameters into the DXF file. Community version of QCAD does not support this feature.
* A `DXF <https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/DXF>`_ file to parametrize.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial3.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional with DXF file to parametrize opened

   QCAD Professional with DXF file to parametrize opened

Manual parametrization
----------------------
1. Open the DXF file in QCAD Professional.  `(File -> Open)`
2. Add new layer called :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER` `(Layer -> Add Layer)`

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/layer.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional layer adding dialog window

   QCAD Professional layer adding window

3. Add :ref:`MTEXT` entity containing names of the variables passed to the renderer and variables added during
   parametrization. It can be placed anywhere. See :ref:`MTEXT` to get more information about the format of
   the entity. `(Draw -> Text)`


.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial11.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional with MTEXT dialog window opened

   QCAD Professional with MTEXT dialog window opened

4. Connect entities. Entities must be connected to each other.
      * **CIRCLES** - by their center point
      * **LINES** - by at lest one of their end points
      * **ARCS** - by their center point
      * **POINTS** - by their center point
      * **INSERTS** - by their insertion point
   To achieve this add `LINE` entities `(Draw -> Line)` on to the :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER`. Those lines will connect
   the entities together and form one coherent graph. They won't be rendered in the final DXF file.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial5.png
   :alt: QCAD DXF drawing connected with lines

   DXF drawing connected with lines

5.
   Final step is to add parameters to the entities. To do so select the entity and scroll down the
   ``Property Editor`` to the ``Custom`` section. Click on the red plus button and add the parameter.

   .. _explicit-section:

   * ``LINE``, ``CIRCLE`` and ``ARC``
      - ``Name`` must be: `c`.
      - ``Value`` contains the expression describing the entity. According to the table below.

      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |    Value           | Description                                                                 |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |      ``c``         | (constant) Entity length will not change                                    |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |      ``?``         | (undefined) Entity length will be calculated by the renderer.               |
      |                    | **Only if there is other path to the both end points of the line!**         |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |  ``v*10*sin(2)``   | (math expression) Entity length will be calculated from the math expression |
      |                    | (``v`` is a variable). YOu can use `c` variable as well.                     |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

      Variables from the :ref:`MTEXT` entity can be used, as well as math expressions provided by
      `this list <https://github.com/AxiaCore/py-expression-eval/#available-operators-constants-and-functions>`_.

      There is an option to add **optional** ``line`` variable. This variables states the custom line style of the entity.
      ``Value`` should be in a format `<dash_width> <space_width>` seperated by a space. For example `1 2`.

   * ``INSERT``
        - ``Name`` must be: `c`.
        - ``Value`` contains the expression describing width and height of the entity split by a `@` sign. In the format:
          ``width@height``. Both width and height are math expressions (see above) where `?` is only allowed for the
          one of the dimensions. For example: `c*3@?` or `?@200*sqrt(20)`. For the `?` dimension the renderer will
          calculate the value to fit the aspect ratio of the entity.

   ::note
        Entities on :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER` contained in ``INSERT`` entity will not be rendered but they will be taken
        into account while calculating the width and height of the ``INSERT`` entity. This is useful
        to make calculations easier.

        For example: To parametrize a part of the ellipse, full ellipse on the :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER`
        can be drawn on top. This way by parametrizing the full ellipse the part
        will be rendered according to the full ellipse size. In many scenarios it is easier to parametrize.

   * ``LWPOLILINE``, ``POLYLINE``, ``SPLINE``, ``ELLIPSE``, ``MTEXT`` **etc.**
        - Those entities must be packed into ``INSERT`` entity and parametrized as described above.


   * ``POINT``
        - ``Name`` must be: `name`.
        - ``Value`` contains the name of the variable. This variable will be returned by
          the :meth:`qsketchmetric.renderer.Renderer.render` in a dictionary.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial12.png
   :alt: LINE entity with parameters

   LINE entity with parameters

Commit message:

Support for Complex Linetype Pattern added #4. Docs improved.

docs/how_to_guide/Manual parametrization.rst, after:

.. _parametrization-section:

Manual parametrization
======================

Supported DXF Entities
----------------------
QSketchMetric explicit supports the following DXF entities:
``LINE``, ``CIRCLE``, ``ARC``, ``POINT``, ``INSERT`` entities. Other entities such as
``LWPOLYLINE``, ``POLYLINE``, ``SPLINE``, ``ELLIPSE``, ``MTEXT``, ``TEXT`` **etc.**  can
be also parametrized, using the ``INSERT`` entity.


What is needed?
-------------------
* `QCAD Professional <https://qcad.org/en/download>`_ is a commercial software, but it offers a free trial version. It
  is needed to embed the parameters into the DXF file. Community version of QCAD does not support this feature.
* A `DXF <https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/DXF>`_ file to parametrize.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial3.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional with DXF file to parametrize opened

   QCAD Professional with DXF file to parametrize opened

Manual parametrization
----------------------
1. Open the DXF file in QCAD Professional.  `(File -> Open)`
2. Add new layer called :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER` `(Layer -> Add Layer)`

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/layer.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional layer adding dialog window

   QCAD Professional layer adding window

3. Add :ref:`MTEXT` entity containing names of the variables passed to the renderer and variables added during
   parametrization. It can be placed anywhere. See :ref:`MTEXT` to get more information about the format of
   the entity. `(Draw -> Text)`


.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial11.png
   :alt: QCAD Professional with MTEXT dialog window opened

   QCAD Professional with MTEXT dialog window opened

4. Connect entities. Entities must be connected to each other.
      * **CIRCLES** - by their center point
      * **LINES** - by at lest one of their end points
      * **ARCS** - by their center point
      * **POINTS** - by their center point
      * **INSERTS** - by their insertion point
   To achieve this add `LINE` entities `(Draw -> Line)` on to the :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER`. Those lines will connect
   the entities together and form one coherent graph. They won't be rendered in the final DXF file.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial5.png
   :alt: QCAD DXF drawing connected with lines

   DXF drawing connected with lines

5.
   Final step is to add parameters to the entities. To do so select the entity and scroll down the
   ``Property Editor`` to the ``Custom`` section. Click on the red plus button and add the parameter.

   .. _explicit-section:

   * ``LINE``, ``CIRCLE`` and ``ARC``
      - ``Name`` must be: `c`.
      - ``Value`` contains the expression describing the entity. According to the table below.

      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |    Value           | Description                                                                 |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |      ``c``         | (constant) Entity length will not change                                    |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |      ``?``         | (undefined) Entity length will be calculated by the renderer.               |
      |                    | **Only if there is other path to the both end points of the line!**         |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |  ``v*10*sin(2)``   | (math expression) Entity length will be calculated from the math expression |
      |                    | (``v`` is a variable). YOu can use `c` variable as well.                     |
      +--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

      Variables from the :ref:`MTEXT` entity can be used, as well as math expressions provided by
      `this list <https://github.com/AxiaCore/py-expression-eval/#available-operators-constants-and-functions>`_.

      There is an option to add **optional** ``line`` variable. This variables states the custom line style of the entity.
      ``Value`` should be in a format of `ezdxf complex line pattern format <https://ezdxf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/linetypes.html#removing-linetypes>`_.
      See `ezdxf documentation <https://ezdxf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/linetypes.html#removing-linetypes>`_ for more information about the format.
      ``Value`` example: `A,2,-1,["BOWL",STANDARD,S=.5,U=0.0,X=-0.1,Y=-.05],-2.5`

   * ``INSERT``
        - ``Name`` must be: `c`.
        - ``Value`` contains the expression describing width and height of the entity split by a `@` sign. In the format:
          ``width@height``. Both width and height are math expressions (see above) where `?` is only allowed for the
          one of the dimensions. For example: `c*3@?` or `?@200*sqrt(20)`. For the `?` dimension the renderer will
          calculate the value to fit the aspect ratio of the entity.

   ::note
        Entities on :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER` contained in ``INSERT`` entity will not be rendered but they will be taken
        into account while calculating the width and height of the ``INSERT`` entity. This is useful
        to make calculations easier.

        For example: To parametrize a part of the ellipse, full ellipse on the :ref:`VIRTUAL_LAYER`
        can be drawn on top. This way by parametrizing the full ellipse the part
        will be rendered according to the full ellipse size. In many scenarios it is easier to parametrize.

   * ``LWPOLILINE``, ``POLYLINE``, ``SPLINE``, ``ELLIPSE``, ``MTEXT`` **etc.**
        - Those entities must be packed into ``INSERT`` entity and parametrized as described above.


   * ``POINT``
        - ``Name`` must be: `name`.
        - ``Value`` contains the name of the variable. This variable will be returned by
          the :meth:`qsketchmetric.renderer.Renderer.render` in a dictionary.

.. figure:: https://qsketchmetric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/Media/tutorial12.png
   :alt: LINE entity with parameters

   LINE entity with parameters
